Content validity
Retest reliability
Interrater reliability
Concurrent validity

Hawthorne test?
Role demands
Criterion demands
Good-subject tendency

Posner & Snyder

Endogenous, Exogenous attention
Overt, Covert Orienting

Johnson and Eleinz-proposal varied by demand

Neglect Syndrome
Attentional Capture

Vigilance attention
Alerting attention
Orienting attention
Executive attention

Tuberoinfundibular pathway
Mesocortical pathway

Norepinephrine-alertness

Serotinin-mood regulation, memory, and sleep
Nicotine-agonist at Ach receptors stimulates CNS

3-5 yrs 10 hrs
6-13 9
4mo-11mo 12 hrs

Microsleeps

Active comparator arm

DSM-5

Morphemes
Phonemes
Lexicon
Syntax

Cloze probability

Operationalized

peripheral route to persuasion

reciprocal determinism

Looking-glass self is the concept that there is a process by which our sense of self develops from interactions with others.

Conflict theory is a theoretical framework in which society is viewed as composed of groups that are in competition, with one group possibly dominating or where the distribution of power is unequal.

A total institution is a place where a great number of similarly situated people, cut off from the wider community for a considerable time, together lead an enclosed, formally administered round of life.

Anticipatory socialization is the process of learning (in advance) an anticipated future role or status.

Social constructionism
Symbolic Interactionism

A variable ratio schedule produces the highest, steadiest rate of responding with short pauses after delivery of the reinforcers.

Activity theory is concerned with the replacement of certain jobs and activities, lost due to an aging population.

Disengagement theory examines the self-reflection that occurs as one ages and how aging causes a separation of society.

Continuity theory attempts to understand the choices one makes to maintain consistency in social roles as one ages.

Age stratification theory describes how the age of a generation regulates that generation’s behavior.

past-in-present discrimination
individual discrimination
side-effect discrimination

tragedy of commons 
social exchange theory 
just-world hypothesis

Social disorganization theory states that the conditions of a neighborhood shapes the likelihood that a person in that environment will become involved in street crimes.

differential association is a theory developed by Edwin Sutherland proposing that through interaction with others, individuals learn the values, attitudes, techniques, and motives for criminal behavior